everybody welcome back to northern land
please binding of issac afterbirth plus
again we're getting a nice little pseudo
streak going on here with no vain
compromises good rate of fire
okay damage speed is acceptable spacebar
item is is mildly better than acceptable
I would suggest it's pretty okay I wish
it did more damage like the fact that it
kind of didn't kill that champion in
negative 10 seconds I think tells you
everything you need to know about the
damage that black hole did but it also
saved me from having to worry like
basically at all about my survival here
so I'm relatively Pro black hole I think
it's a it's a balanced item a well
balanced item I should say cuz all items
are balanced in their own unique way but
I can tell alright yep I knew it
Twitter what do you think kind of
existence I lead that I want Bloomberg
tech news playing constantly in the
right sidebar do you think I'm like
venture capitalists in Silicon Valley
I've recognized I do work in in tech in
like the most tangential way possible I
basically am like an idiot wait a minute
this breaks rocks right who works with
computers and as a result are you
targeting I don't understand if you're
targeting me with these advertisements I
don't I'm not in the kind of position to
buy you know snapchats new IPO it's I
recognize that maybe a lot of people are
interested in it but at the same time
you don't need to autoplay it at least
give me a play button or something like
that
I'm not salty that the that the news
exists I'm just salty that you choose to
autoplay it without my without my
permission or without my authorization I
want to phrase it in a way that's good
here but
I don't know maybe Bloomberg's giving
you jim cramer style mad money for that
George Clooney style money monster for
that I saw that movie on an airplane as
I see many movies in this day and age
and I thought that it was this is the
least interesting thing we've ever done
in an episode I thought that George
Clooney's money monster with Julia
Roberts was a solid five and a half to
six out of ten not a memorable movie but
at the same time a relatively enjoyable
experience at the time that I did not
feel like I wasted my time watching how
about that Gene Siskel that is your real
name that is a huge speed upgrade man
and I actually feel like pretty good
about the quality of this run right now
now that we've got a little bit of HP
the finger does damage over the rock as
you can see so I'm kind of using it as
like the world's worst spectral tear but
especially against champions it seems
advisable to not put myself too far into
harm's way here yeah piercing shots is
also lovely okay well there's another
this is in Bloomberg tech this is a
Skype message
at some point you got to learn to blame
yourself for having Skype open actually
like by the time you're watching this
the Skype framerate slowdown should be a
thing of the past which is going to be
like you know sad it's going to be a
passage of time but effectively I
haven't been using this computer since
2012 but like parts of this computer
have been part of my recording setup
since 2012 I got a new computer that is
a hundred percent brand new which is
exciting because this is kind of like a
Frankenstein's monster sort of sort of
situation and I would never recommend
this at least if you use your computer
for work it ended up I shouldn't have
picked that up
it didn't matter but I still shouldn't
have picked it up it ended up working
out okay and I do mean okay it wasn't
seamless but dude like I tried to save a
little bit of money on my last computer
maybe two years ago if you remember the
mr. green man debacle buy why do I feel
like my rate of fire got worse there but
it didn't I'm just losing it by by
taking some of the parts of my old
computer and moving them into this one
like for example I think I took my
solid-state hard drive that had the OS
on it now we don't need to do a fresh OS
reinstall we'll just port over the
existing hard drive it's called all
sorts of like driver conflicts and stuff
like that
this thing's had like four video cards
in it and that's not even an exaggerated
there might be an underestimation or an
underestimate of the number of video
cards that have been in this thing so
take it from me if you're like if you're
watching this in your a youtuber a
twitch streamer just like the
performance of your PC is integral to
your existence just get a new one dude
people will tell you as people people
will min/max the creation of a computer
and that's a good thing because
computers are expensive and I think for
the ease for the average user I'm not
saying I'm an above-average user just
I'm an aberration as far as users go
for an average user it's good you know
if you can save a few hundred dollars by
reusing parts from your old PC and your
new one then go for it and if you're
like a computer engineer or you've got
the skills to handle this module early
go for it but if you're only pseudo
technically literate on a hardware level
which is how I would describe myself if
I'm being flattering on a you know
self-portrait level then just you know
go for brand new it'll pay dividends in
terms of like your mental health I
promise but anyway we should have a new
set up and hopefully everything there
will be working completely fine when
that happens I'm going to give you one
spirit art I gave you one and a half
should not have done that in case that's
not abundantly clear now I'm a very
scared individual I have Bob's brain
stay away from me please
I have Bob's brain and a half of a
spirit heart but you know what this is
the kind of this is how you test your
mettle it's also I can test your chest
love lists wonder it one at a time one
at a time very easy one at a time two at
a time that time good work team
there's no way that's going to be a
secret room but I have to check because
it looks like a secret room is this
always the magician now this card is
different okay so we're going to come to
the big room pop our death card my
favorite form of pasta pop a death card
you should why would I why do this is
the question that I find myself asking
right now this was not necessary I was
why invite this stress in your Isaac
life
I even like it's so predictable that it
could have happened oh I thought I would
be at one spirit heart instead of a half
spirit heart it's a little bit of a of a
cop-out I think half the spirit artist
is worse and it's probably much worse
but it's not that much worse we're faced
with a with a an enviable situation here
because I have to do more rooms to get
to the shop every room that we do gives
us a fairly decent chance to die this is
actually like a very pleasant room as
long as their range can't affect me I
think we'll get a full black hole charge
the big positive here is that the black
hole is very good at keeping us going as
long as we have it active whatever room
we use it on we're pretty unlikely to be
hit I think and we can also use it to
destroy rocks although that's highly
secondary all right
obviously I do want to look at that but
we can't necessarily justify it right
now in theory like once we make it to
the shop we should be fine here and then
we can all look back on this and laugh
and go ah ha ha ha remember that time NL
tried to cheat the system and almost
died in the process by being an absolute
idiot we'll all look back on that as a
glorious little endeavor in our shared
history together I don't even know what
I'm saying anymore I'm just I'm scared
ok handled this room properly I don't
care about saving bombs I care about
like giving myself the least chance
possible to get hit little baggie is
almost untaken belitz not like I'm too
attached to the magician card but little
baggie itself is just awful
please oh that hurts and also that
mushroom could have killed us we have a
spirit heart that's all that matters
watch out Bob's brain went by the Steam
sale 2 lakh upgrades so we should be
fine in here I'm not taking a blue
candle at least not intentionally black
hole's been doing fine
we have eased ourselves out of what was
destined to be a terrible situation
seemed destined to be a terrible
situation at least 12 cents we got so
many bombs you might as well you know go
for broke here buy a couple of items
ideally okay we'll get chaos and we'll
buy this and we can still afford one
item after that
keep throwing bombs we got 15 cents
actually dude absolutely contract from
below I actually think we should go for
loss fly as well and the reasoning there
pretty much just comes down to come on
you phased over but you won't phase back
maybe it used a rock or something on the
way I'm not sure anyway
I basically did that to try to get some
more money to buy more items but this is
fine especially we can get some more
reroll machines we essentially navigated
out of my own idiocy which is always
nice I I really would love some VPS
we're one item away from becoming guppy
one thing I didn't even mention because
things got dicey right after this
happened but we beat the odds on our
last floor and got a deal with the devil
that we deserved I mean we can't do much
else - that's a good stuff we can't do
much else to give ourselves a better
chance of getting a deal with the devil
in that situation - you know blowing up
the shopkeeper before we fight the boss
on that floor but I digress the point is
could still be a while if the gup-e
transformation is going to happen it
could still be a while very surprised
that's not our secret room continue to
be surprised that's not our secret room
I was going to say I'm wary because I
think it might actually get the
mushrooms here technically we don't need
dark Prince's crown I put on my nerd
voice for that which is actually just
made my normal voice technically we
don't need dark Prince's crown well if
you look at the stack of the instant was
put on just after the initial cast so it
gets popped first so unfortunately your
dispel doesn't count in this situation
but you know I can call a judge if you
want that's me being pedantic but also
correct
it matches the gathering which is a an
obviously fictional circumstance because
most of the time it's somebody else
explaining the rules to me and they go I
can call a judge if you want and I just
go add I mean I believe you I don't
think that you're lying and if you're
lying I mean I'm just going to let you
have it
seems like you need it if if you're
willing to lie to get ahead in our Magic
the Gathering game you know what the
wins yours oh the wins all yours buddy
that mushroom is a little a little divot
out of it
so I again made potentially a stupid
decision essentially I've traded three
spirit hearts away for the privilege of
the having item rooms on the womb we're
making a lot of very fast and loose
decisions on this run our damage also I
have a couple of things to talk about
here first thing our damage continues to
be terrible secondly we have chaos so I
was talking about our deal with the
devil as if that's our only guppy chance
but in actuality it's not we can get
guppy items essentially anywhere I do
want to go to the curse room though if
we can swing it but the the real problem
right now is more this damage in DPS
sort of side of things it's it's lovely
that were little frightened again it's
lovely that we're able to get these
guppy items anywhere but it's also very
scary right now because our HP is bad
and our DPS is bad now my HP being bad
is genuinely of oh you idiot I could
have kicked it out but like you made it
tough on me didn't you our luck is 2
right now
just worry about flies look I exactly I
thought there was a pretty good chance
we would get an HP upgrade here but that
judgment paid out with a troll bomb this
is why when you like make decisions in
Isaac you should make them being a
little conservative because instead I've
chosen to make them like as aggressively
as possible here I hate I hate that you
did that to me there and it's created a
bad situation I think I would almost
rather open these and look for spirit
hearts
they're so slow-moving and yet I'm like
mine flooded beyond belief we can't stop
the finger from dealing damage dude we
got a spirit heart out of it I'm losing
my mind we're so lucky we can't stop the
finger from dealing damage so we have to
be very careful with enemies that
explode or otherwise present a hazard
upon death we don't want to accidentally
kill them when they're close to us
basically is what I'm getting at here we
also don't want to take this pill we got
to play way way way more conservatively
here we don't want to take the pill
because the pill could very easily
result in our deaths or at least
contribute to our deaths I don't think
we can use the black hole properly here
and we have fallen behind schedule I
will take credit for falling behind
schedule because I have squandered some
of this run at the same time I am a
little cheesed off that we continue to
have base damage at catacombs to the
shop
could do some great things to me just
make sure you're staying away from the
mushrooms which could explode how did
you live like one sustained black hole
and then also a Bob's brain shot like
right to the dome piece either way we're
making it we're making it I'm a little
offend my personality a little muted on
this run because I've been so scared the
whole time but I've done it to myself
look of belial is fine but not
specifically what we want and this is
double Baccano runes and a health
upgrade pill I took the pill on a whim
and that's not skill that's entirely
luck thank God it happened when it took
my god thank God it happened when it did
though so let's get stacked here
compound fracture we got no restock so
we're not going to get anything else but
this is still very good Bob's brain has
almost killed me that's the most
embarrassing thing for me because Bob's
brain is like it's a pussycat as far as
items go how many times we've been down
this you know Bob's brain Road you guys
don't explode huh
more times than I'd like to admit to
still take damage from Bob's brain is an
admission of great personal shame do we
know this tell appeals sure we have
still not improved our damage but
compound fracture is a good item no
question is that hard it is our HP up
okay everything is very very slightly
coming up millhouse now
empress to a club to a club that we just
got 25 bombs their error room please
no error room also completely fired we
actually have two HP upgrades i'm lovin
life dude this run has been it's been
taking its toll on me
it said goodbye too many times before i
can't believe it was that floor when we
smelt it i think there's an off chance
we can make boss rush i really don't
know how much we want to invest in that
opportunity i was terrible
don't kick my bomb you kicked my bomb
mom like again i don't know if it's a
bug or it's working as intended but
there used to be like the fact that you
get to charges every wave in boss rush
this bad dodge admittedly if you get to
charges every wave that's effectively a
black hole every wave of boss rush not
like not to well no it's black hole
every two waves I guess my math does not
check out brains a little fuzzy this
morning apparently just hold it together
here I'm not necessarily seeking the
boss room right now but I wouldn't turn
it away I'm hoping we get some shops on
route on route I don't know that's one
of those words people tell you you're
saying it wrong even though there's two
genuine pronunciations except into a
little vintage Michael kinda well we'll
definitely fight the first boss
and it's one of the more annoying bosses
in the game but we've kept him oh I
guess he's so strong and fast that he
has the capabilities to get out of the
event horizon of a black hole
sure yeah that makes perfect sense I
understand where you're coming from on
that one yeah I mean like haven't you
seen the movie interstellar look I
realize I'm being needlessly pedantic
about the situation in general but at
the same time come on here how was the
enemy able to navigate outside of a
black hole that's the value proposition
of a black hole if you didn't want it to
be pedantic then don't call it a black
hole call it like a hot tub drain or
something like that I could escape the
bounds of a hot tub drain I love as I
play Kimmie conception by the ways is
swell especially if we can get an arcade
on this floor with the blood bank in it
but I love that I can tell how Austin's
battlegrounds games are going while I'm
playing Isaac because the Bob's brain
damages I'm genuinely apologetic but
it's like Austin started playing
battlegrounds then 11 minutes later
doesn't mean it's a bad run just you
know means that he died Austin is now
playing super hexagon then office is now
playing player unknowns battlegrounds
it's good you know you need something in
the something in the background to help
you out when you when you die in that
game I wouldn't know because I've never
was a little dicey died and player on
those battlegrounds in fact I've never
done in any video game in history I
think that dying is for babies honestly
if I'm just being 100% with you virtual
dying at least let's crack it sure
described Scorpio as like positively an
item that exists not really had that
process now playing player I know the
battleground not necessarily a good item
but sure you know if we have 3.52 damage
I'm not going to turn up my nose because
I have a problem with his baggy clothes
he was a sculpting young his ogre was
may do that doesn't really make sense
but it's kind of clever it wasn't good
enough for him and now he's losing the
streak the audience interest piqued um
does the old vintage is he wanted one
dude how can you leap away from the
bounds of a black hole it's sucking you
in madness imprisoning me all that I see
absolute failure stay on target
if 98 cents so the actual game plan here
is you take petrified poop we don't want
more money we want more spirit hearts
which can sometimes show up on on poops
I don't know petrified poop changes the
odds or if it just gives you a better
chance of getting a payout which in turn
gives you an absolute better chance of
getting a spirit heart oh my god not all
of this damage is my fault and I'm not
trying to shirk responsibility but at
some point you got to look at a run like
this and go what are we supposed to do
with 3.5 damage there's I unless like an
will more damage into existence it's
kind of hard I've just walked directly
on this bike that time so that's not
really making a good case for me
but sincerely like this run is not
giving me a whole heck of a lot to work
with
should we have given up you know some of
the HP that we took know that
doubtlessly no but I dispute this being
entirely you know oh look at this run
and I was taking so much bad damage I
don't see it that way at least I don't
see it fully that way a lot of the the
Bob's brain damage don't even talk to me
because that I'm as upset as anybody
could be about that damage but some of
this damage is well within the bounds of
reason of course the the somewhat ironic
thing is that Bob's brain and black hole
are actually a good combo so I do
believe that taking them was the right
decision just would have been better if
I'd taken less damage from Bob's brain
itself which I I know I have every
capability within my within my body to
do because we've done it a million times
before please please thank you that was
good I had like a flash of inspiration
there and I was like there's going to be
a guppy item in that golden chest then
there was not and now I just feel
betrayed gotta save our keys to some
extent we're borderline screwed on the
next floor
sounds like a name of a really
exploitative adult website but we are
like actually in a really really bad
place on the next floor we we need to
stack up absolute HP any form of HP
stack it up stack it in let me begin if
we don't get some fuel we're not going
to win damage tears up something from
the shop stuff yes this is me attempting
to make a freestyle rap parity of jump
around for some reason we only have one
key one key is enough to get into the
shop this actually I mean this is no
good but we'll take it because I'm an
idiot and we'll also take our key as
well and then we'll grab the world card
and just use that to find our secret
rooms but I'm going to donate a little
bit of money but not until we play this
joker right here I want to play the
blood bank some more if possible because
there's a chance we can get a dark bomb
out of that and that would be a huge
help not out of the blood bank
specifically be not out of the blood
bank specifically but out of the cambian
conception plays from the blood bank
enabling them okay so that's 63 cents so
the the secret room was close it was
like maybe here I've lost sight of it
which i think is fair given the
circumstances but annoying nonetheless
there we go another spirit heart and an
eternal heart so you know what screw
came being conception which is a great
item and I don't mean that I mean that
it's a great item what I don't mean is
screw that items but we're going to be
moving onwards here instead because I'm
happy with the hall that we picked up we
have basically doubled our HP any time
you find yourself in the ability with
the ability to double your HP we haven't
even fought mom yet I just realized but
any time you find yourself with the
ability to double your HP
got to remember that probably means your
initial HP was pretty bad you can double
your HP by getting a single HP upgrade
in this case though we got two HP
upgrades thank you very much
no krampus please no krampus please No
Deal
that's not really what I meant but thank
you for no krampus at least we will keep
our HP alive to the next floor which is
looking a little suss for a while there
two millennia lies it runs cardroom
Excel so we're in like almost exactly
the same situation where I find myself
being like well we might be able to make
the hush fight work but do we really
like is the juice worth the squeeze
Tammy's head which honestly seems like
it's a testament to how bad our damage
is right now that Tammy's head seems
like exactly on par with black hole
because if our damage is like a 4 out of
10 not oh not an absolute 4 but a 4 out
of 10
we probably go with with Tammy's head
because it's great instead we were like
well the black hole at least keeps
enemies mostly locked down so it's hard
for me to say no to black hole right now
the synergy exists on Sue's please the
yarrow rune does also exists so I'm
happy if we can make it to the chest
there I'm at least a happy camper
a bizarre archetype that's been popping
up in Isaac way in way more frequently
lately it's just like no damage
we finally got damage rate as I was
about to pop off on from a discourse
standpoint but I guess because there's
like so many well it first off it could
just be a sampling error could be
variance basically like I think because
rarely our damage ups being added it's
like peer effects and space bar items
are the the most common items it seems
at least so there's very few like raw
damage upgrades that seem to be added
and it gets into the pool for damage to
the point that it's a little you know I
think it is by by flooding the market
it's made the the runs a little weaker
on average overall which is fine but
dude to to not get any damage upgrades
by what is essentially the eighth floor
of the game thanks to the excel floors
here is a little uh it's a little crazy
of course then like I look like a little
baby because we all now were guppy and
we can fly and we didn't get a damage
upgrade on this floor as well but I
digress dude there was there was a lot
of tough situations in there that we did
not necessarily have to live through so
now we'll be fine and you know it's a
good first run of the day because the
odds are and I'm dooming myself by
saying this obviously but the odds are
it probably won't get tougher than this
today which is good a lot of this pain
was self-inflicted in hindsight was
Bob's brain the right pickup I say yes
and I mishandled it that's my position
on the matter
that's my Council of Nicaea on Bob's
brain I could have done a lot better
with it we're not going to make the hush
fight not that I would necessarily deign
to do that in the first place here but
given how things have been on this run
foot anyway you get the idea
you might be saying NL you're getting a
little cocky for someone who's you know
not got a whole heck of a lot of HP yeah
but like it's 9 lives in Guffey and
we've got a space bar item that at this
point if we have it for a boss probably
allows us to to kill the boss without
getting hit it is conceivable that we
could die I mean our raw stats are still
not that good is really what it comes
down to whether there should be item
rooms down here we've melted that
trinket long ago so watch out number 2
combined with all I didn't even see I
got tricked by my own black hole there
number 2 combined with black hole is
pretty good because it sucks the bombs
away from you right as they could have
hit you okay
respect and appreciate we could still
lose this up stats are not that good was
what I was just saying there but I think
we're likely going to be beyond okay we
don't need too much more I mean the
extra spirits are bouncy it's very
generous of the game and I appreciate it
in fact there should be two item rooms
for us on this floor the only question
is whether or not we're going to be able
to find any of them excuse me so you
didn't happen to see anything at all did
you
it's a deep cut from Austin Powers
that's how you know on the super fan
goes to powers con every year it's not
to be confused with the other powers con
which is the super fans of the
PlayStation Digital Show powers we got
Dark Matter great Andrew birdsong and
also a decent damage upgrade year
I do still want to go to the item I mean
we've explored it literally it's got to
be like 85% of this floor why stop now
grabbed we got 100% devil deal chances
don't grab the HP just yet this should
be easy dude copy just transforms
pun intended I suppose the the runs so
quickly you know what this is the kind
of run where this makes perfect sense so
what are we going to do with Plan C of
all things I mean I guess I'm going to
use it too especially with our HP being
bad I'm going to use it to kill every
boss that we come across for the rest of
the game seems appropriate and
applicable to me so we do get to item
rooms second item room another goofy
item shade is basically not worth
anything but life goes on we became
super guppy which of course I'm very
pleased by you dropped a trinket that's
actually very good but with ten lives I
don't think we care about our
survivability that much well ten nine
lives and then a question mark I don't
think we care about our survivability
that much instead excuse me
instead we're basically just going to go
find the boss press the spacebar and
they may die and this is basically hell
freezing over we have gotten to the
point where we are using Plan C on a run
you know the plot has been lost it's a
new era what is left here a single poop
perchance to dream
I don't know why I'm worried about
picking up HP seems a little ill-advised
ok 26 Keys is actually nice because it
means we get like a second era rune
which I don't even know how we'd make
that happen but with Kaos who knows dude
means that we might be able to double
twice and still have enough keys to open
everything I guess we do want to live
long enough to be able to make sure we
make to the boss fight the use Plan C
although if we use Plan C on on a room
that's annoying that like there's no
it's not written in the code that it has
to be used on a boss I'm assuming it
recharges by the way that it's not like
a forget-me-now although it looks
exactly like forget-me-now but that's
you know a topic for another day I
suppose not exactly it is a different
color but I think I think it's reusable
if you can only use it once we're going
to find out pretty quickly for now it's
like it's a new day
Huna maybe this is going to be the day
of strange
Isak choices maybe I'll end up using the
clicker today I know you're saying NL
don't be ridiculous but Plan C is the
item that I've railed against like more
I don't like using the word railed in
that way it opens up all sorts of
Pandora's box double entendres but
sounds like an adult-film series where
people have intercourse on a train is
all I'm trying to suggest farmers but
Plan C is probably my least favorite
item in the game and we used a glass
cannon not too long ago either it's like
it's just proof that anything can happen
although it still probably shouldn't
anything can happen but it probably
shouldn't all right so let's give it a
try here get dusted young
we used it and no we did still die and
we lost Clancy but still we use that
should be an achievement honestly to
justify its existence
we used Clancy effectively I thought we
could use it more than once but life
absolutely goes on okay this this I mean
could be worse let's be honest
pentagram bomber boy is very scary but
the the tears up from the screws is is
welcomed the damage up from pentagram is
nice at this point it basically comes
down to we're racing against time to try
to live here we got nine plus lives
though well no we have 8 plus lives
technically remember we lost our space
bar items so we couldn't roll mister
boom but I kind of like the idea that if
we survive for six rooms without taking
damage
we'll get oh hey dark bum from kmb and
conception dad's a surprise I like the
idea that we'll get some invincibility
here if we play our cards right belly
button is a second trinkets you know
what let's give it a shot it was not at
all even close to worth it but at this
point we can afford the to roll the dice
a little bit ultimately this ended up
being a fun run and it is still indeed
not over but ultimately this did end up
being a fun run I have found myself a
little frightened on a couple of
different occasions we have and Unruh
missed us or I'm loathe to say it
because I want to take a hundred percent
credit for the win here but the game
that was so bad did save us on a number
of occasions like perfectly time to
spirit our drops we finally eventually
got damage but it was it was not an easy
one especially like we were not carried
at all through the first few floors
we've now created a run where apparently
I can just take damage willy-nilly and
it's no problem like oh yeah number 2
bomber boy
with Bob's brain and I'm not even
sweating it so that's just basically the
run getting super lucky and I'm
extremely thankful for that because if
it had proceeded on the quality that it
was stuck at for a long time I think we
would have just been completely screwed
but instead word we're getting more on
the chest than we got on like the entire
run leading up to the chest
and we look like we're gonna come out
with six wings in a row and Franciso
although from a commentary standpoint a
little say me from a game standpoint
mildly zany we got and what bothered my
mind is that it was actually productive
we got productive use out of out of Plan
C it wasn't just shoehorned in it
actually cost us almost nothing to kill
Isaac instantly so not saying it's good
the run basically changes 0% by us
choosing not to use it but we did get
value out of it on a very very forgiving
way we got value out of it the Flies are
going to dust you food I'm very sorry to
tell you this I'm sorry to be the bearer
of bad news but you didn't get dusted
quite as quickly as I thought you would
know void portal merciful wind thank you
if you enjoyed the episode and click the
like button and of course subscribe if
you want to see more in the future but
for now thanks for watching
I hope you did enjoy it of course
subscribe if you want to see more in the
future and I'll see you next time